good afternoon it's my great pleasure to
welcome you all to this afternoon of
lectures on the topics of love and
marriage and Italian Renaissance art
they've been organized to complement the
exhibition just now opening on the in
the second floor galleries at the top of
the grand staircase called art and love
in Renaissance Italy and I encourage you
all to peek in on it after these
lectures are open are over will be open
to all of you i'm andrea bayer the
curator of the exhibition and i'll be
introducing our three speakers this
afternoon in our exhibition and i say
our because each of the speaker's here
today played an important role in its
organization and catalog we've attempted
to look at the wide variety of artwork
ceramics last wear jewelry Casone chests
portraits drawings and prints and great
paintings that were commissioned and
produced between about 1400 and 1550 to
celebrate the most significant ritual
moments in most renaissance lives
betrothal marriage and the birth of a
child these secular works meant for a
domestic setting provide a remarkable
glimpse into the private lives of men
and women during the period their themes
repeat across the media so that for
example clasped hands representing Fay
day or faith the commitment of one
family to another and between the bride
and groom can be found on my Olek of
plates on rings and even on an inkwell
that probably was used during the
contractual moment in a wedding ceremony
the word itself
PHA day can appear inscribed on many
objects sometimes as part of a phrase
amore vole a Fae love needs faith or my
favorite here is my hand give me your
PHA day alluding both to faith and the
ring of faith so really here is my hand
give me the ring from ceremonial gifts
such as these the exhibition moves into
the impressive schemes for decorating
become meta or semi private bedrooms of
the young couple the portraits done of
them and the marvelous gifts given to
the mother and her household on the
birth of a child in each case even when
we have worked hard to identify the
precise function for which an object was
made we have always also attempted to
suggest the rare beauty of these works
and have always emphasized their
aesthetic impact now marriage in the
Renaissance and in Renaissance Italy
rarely had much to do with our notion of
romantic love it was societal rather
than strictly personal and families
determined most marriages that is not to
say that people were not swept up by the
currents of love first it was hoped that
marriage and the start of a family would
lead to love and this is a hope and a
hope sometimes attained that is
expressed over and over in the objects
on display
then there was sensual and sexual love
about which you'll hear a great deal
today and lastly there was a widespread
fascination with the notion of love
itself that was expressed in all of the
Arts especially poetry and music loves
pains and its pleasures the courtly and
chivalric love that destroyed no one's
reputation and the recognition and love
of a woman
Beauty I hope that when you visit the
exhibition you will become aware of the
many angles from which an artist could
consider themes of love and desire I
have some word of words of thanks to
offer before introducing the first
speaker this afternoon Sunday at the Met
is made possible by the Francesca Ronnie
Primus Foundation which is also making
possible other lectures related to the
exhibition in December and January we
are grateful to them and to the Italian
Cultural Institute of New York our old
friends I know some of you are here in
the auditorium today who have also
provided support for the lectures today
the exhibition itself is made possible
by the Gayle and Parker Gilbert fund the
Samuel H kress Foundation and the Horace
W Goldsmith foundation the exhibition
will travel on to the Kimball Art Museum
in Fort Worth which has been our close
partner in its organization